(upbeat music)
(bird chirping)
(Mirai sighs)
What's wrong?
Oh! Nothing!
It's just that I
totally misunderstood
and thought this was
a two-day mission,
so I didn't bring
enough clothing.
And I was also thinking
how I'd really like
to take a bath now.
You'd better call on
your mental strength
to get over that.
It's just something you
just have to deal with
on any long mission.
You know, the big
problem with you
is that you think mental
strength is everything.
Now, listen up, Mirai!
Stamina is what really
counts in the end!
Just go take a dip in one
of the rivers over there!
Like we did as kids!
No! I can't do that!
The times have
changed, you know!
Aw, man, I seriously hate
the hair I got from my mom.
Oh, yeah. Your hair is
unruly, just like Kurenai's!
Yeah. My mom really is the
one I take after the most.
Even all my best jutsu
are the genjutsu that
I inherited from her.
Huh.
Well, we can talk about
that once we get into town.
Oh!
We're finally here!
The hot springs district
is straight ahead!
I bet you'll get to
take a bath there!
Then let's hurry!
Huh?
My, my! So self-serving!
C'mon! I can't wait
to take a nice soak!
(Opening Theme Music)
(singing in Japanese)
(upbeat music)
Welcome, everyone!
How about some Dog Hot
Spring bean-jam buns?
Dogs are so passé! How about
some Cat Hot Spring cookies?
(upbeat music)
Huh, that's weird.
I thought that this was
supposed to be a quiet town.
You think we'll be
able to find a room?
Oh!
Looks like there's
a festival going on.
Oh, there's a festival?
(dog barking)
Hm.
(cat meowing)
Everyone's wearing either
a cat or a dog mask.
I wonder what kind
of festival this is.
The name of the festival's
not on the poster.
Strange. You'd think someone
would write it down on there.
Oh, I get it!
This is the Dog
and Cat Festival.
Or the Cat and Dog Festival,
as it's also known.
But why would there be two
names for the same festival?
Look at what's in the
middle of the street.
Do you know what that is?
Something to do
with the Festival?
It's a border.
What? Through the
middle of the town?
The Land of Fire and
the Land of Steam
have a friendly relationship.
They have no problems with each
other in their daily lives.
However, the day of the Festival
is an entirely different story.
(dog barking)
This is the Dog Hot Springs.
Once upon a time, when this town
was still just a small village.
(dog barking)
[Kakashi] A lone dog
appeared out of nowhere,
and he told the inhabitants
of this young village
that they should start digging.
And, lo and behold, before
long they hit a hot spring!
As a result, the
village prospered.
Ever since then,
the story of that dog being
a messenger from the Dog God
has been passed down
through the generations
by the villagers,
and the hot springs was
named "Dog Hot Springs."
And they lived
happily ever after.
Why did you make yourself
sound like an old man?
Uh, just getting into the
spirit of things, I guess!
And that is the
"Cat Hot Springs."
(cat meowing)
Now, once upon a time-
Wait, let me be the
one to tell the story!
Huh?
Now, this happened a
long, long time ago.
(cat meowing)
[Guy] Back then, out of
nowhere, a cat appeared, and-
Stop right there!
This is the exact same
story as before, isn't it?
Yes, but how did you know that?
I just had a
feeling, that's all.
Yes, but still,
there's actually more
to the whole story.
According to one account,
a third god that's
neither a dog nor a cat
appeared at the end.
What, seriously? A third god?
[Kakashi] Yes, the God of
Destruction cloaked in flames.
God of Destruction?
Its name was-
(Mirai gulps)
Its name was?
Lord Nenu!
Huh?
Like, "Ne" from Neko for Cat
and "Nu" from Inu for Dog.
(Mirai sighs)
Look, never mind.
It's just a silly name,
and it's probably not
even true, anyway.
Well, the villagers here
either believe in the
Dog God or the Cat God,
and that conflict is the
basis of this entire festival.
That's why the
festival has two names
that couldn't be
written on the poster.
Oh, I see how it is.
But I heard that lately,
dog and cat lovers
from other lands
are coming here for
the festival, too.
See?
(upbeat music)
Dog and cat lovers from
all of the nations, huh?
The festival revolves
around fighting.
Burly men draped in loincloths,
bellowing out their war cries
as they crash their
shrines for dogs and cats
into each other.
(Mirai gulps)
[Kakashi] If you're
from the Land of Fire,
you probably
would've heard of it.
It must be fate
that we're here on the
day of this festival!
So, what do you say stay
and watch the shrine
fight from some box seats!
[Kakashi] You've loved
this sort of thing
ever since you were little, huh?
Wait! As your bodyguard,
I can't let you do this!
Hey, stop! Come on! What if
something goes wrong here?
Dogs reign supreme!
Keep a dog for three days and
they'll cherish your kindness,
but a cat'll forget
even after three years!
Oh, yeah? So what?
At least a cat doesn't
suck up to everyone!
It's the ultimate creature,
standing at the
top of the world!
(cats meowing and dogs barking)
Oh, come on!
I almost lost the
you of two just now!
Can you please not wander
away from your bodyguard?
[Kiba] Yeah, that's right!
You guys're way outta line!
Heaven's never created
anything better than dogs!
[Man with Dog Mask 1]
Yeah, you tell 'em!
[Mirai] Wow, someone's
really looking for a fight!
Without dogs, there'd be no
peace in the Ninja World!
What?
Mr. Kiba?
Huh? Oh, hey! If it isn't Mirai!
(dog barking)
Kiba's a great investigator
in the Leaf Police Force,
an awesome Ninja Hound user,
and even more, he was
one of Mom's students.
What on Earth are
you doing here?
Oh, well, uh,
I just came here
and then kinda hit
it off real nice
with all the dog lovers.
[Tamaki] They're flattering
him and it's gone to his head.
It's so dumb.
Miss Tamaki!
She comes from a clan of Cat
Users and is Kiba's girlfriend!
Uh, or so I thought.
Speak for yourself.
Like you haven't become the
leader of the cat lovers!
(Kiba and Tamaki scoff)
Wait, what exactly
is going on here?
Listen to me, Kakashi Sensei!
See the Dog Hot Springs and
the Cat Hot Springs over there?
Well, we all decided
to talk it over
to see which one to
go in first, but-
Look, the majority decided
to go to the Cat Hot Springs,
but you keep rehashing it!
You just can't let
it go, can you?
Come on!
Of course, you're gonna have the
majority
if you include all of your cats!
Got a problem with that?
(cats meowing)
Look, I said that I'd be okay
with going to the Cat
Hot Springs, didn't I?
But I hate that you
just agreed to it
even though you didn't
really want to do it!
Huh? But that isn't
what I'm doing at all!
Don't tell me those guys-
Are here on a date and they're
fighting over
something as trivial as this.
Whatever!
All right, well, if this
is how you're gonna act,
then I'm gonna go all in as
the leader of the cat lovers!
Fine, bring it on, then!
But you'd better be ready!
Oh, boy.
Not even a dog wants to be
a part of a lovers' spat.
Yeah, neither does a cat.
Um, but shouldn't we
try to do something
about this whole mess?
It's turning into way more
than just a lovers' spat!
Well, it's really a private
matter between those two.
You don't always have
to see eye to eye
when you're in love.
That's also a part of youth!
Oh.
Uh.
[Guy] Ah, looks like
we struck out again.
Huh?
(cats meowing)
(dogs barking)
(crowd fighting)
Don't you think the friction
between the cat lovers and
dog lovers is getting worse?
I believe that's
because those two
became the leaders of
the opposing groups.
Hm.
If this continues,
we won't be able to
find an inn for tonight.
(Mirai gasps)
And I won't be able to
take a bath! I mean, uh-
We have to get the two
of them to make up,
or else it'll affect
my bodyguard duties!
Isn't that correct?
Well, I guess that's
true to some extent.
If that's the case,
then resolving the conflict
between the cat and dog lovers
must also become a part
of the mission, right?
I suppose so-
That's absolutely right!
It's just the kind of mission
that shinobi in the
full power of youth
must pursue with
all their might!
A mission!
Yes, I understand!
For the sake of a nice bath,
I'll take that mission!
What?
There she goes.
Do you really think that
I should make up with him?
Yes!
I'm sure that after waiting
so long go to on this date,
you don't actually want to
spend it like this, right?
It's just that...
Kiba hardly ever
gets any days off
from the Leaf Police Force,
so I made him come out with me.
But he keeps carrying on.
Well, he does things
in his own way.
I guess that...
I thought
he understood me
better than this.
(water splashing)
A date, huh?
And I was really
excited about it, too!
But the way it turned out-
I'm sure that Kiba
doesn't actually want to
fight with you either, so-
(bird crowing)
Who would've thought
that legendary Ninja
Hound user, Kiba Inuzuka,
would grace us
with his presence?
He took part in the fourth Great
Ninja War
and is now a top investigator.
Out of all the Ninja Hound
users,
he's the one closest
to becoming Hokage!
(Kiba laughs)
C'mon, you guys! I mean,
it's all true, but-
I've heard that you know
every single walking trail
in the whole country!
Your love of dogs
led you to create
and sell your own
line of dog food!
And I've heard that you even
taste-test it all yourself!
[Man with Dog Mask 4]
Wow, you're amazing!
Yeah, that's right!
I am Kiba!
(crowd cheering)
We're gonna win!
As long as Kiba's with us,
we'll beat those cat lovers!
(Kiba harrumphs)
Huh?
Uh-
Uh, come on! What do
you think you're doing?
Well, I don't know exactly!
But they really love me!
Shouldn't you be finding
some way to make up
with Miss Tamaki?
What? No! She was wrong!
Yeah, but even if she was,
it's a lot cooler if
you apologize first.
Look, once dogs make
their decisions,
they never go back on them.
Anyway, Mirai, as Kurenai
Sensei's daughter,
how are you gonna help
us dog lovers out?
The honor of the Ninja
World is at stake!
I really don't know what to say.
Uh, what do I do? If
this keeps up, then-
Wait, I know! Come to think
of it, that just might work!
[Tamaki] This is from Kiba?
Yes.
He wanted to make up with you,
so he wrote you a letter
and had me deliver it.
Huh. Really? He did?
Well, actually, I'm the
one who wrote that letter!
I really hate to trick her like
this,
but if they make up, then
the end'll justify the means!
And their relationship'll
be patched up!
(Tamaki groans)
Hey! What the hell's this?
Huh?
Look at this part!
"As a peace offering,
come with your cats to
the Hot Springs Inn,
and we'll all sit around the
table and eat tangerines."
But I don't understand.
What's the problem with that?
Cats hate tangerines
and citrusy scents,
and he knows that!
Which means that this letter-
It seems like a peace offering,
but it's an attempt
to harass me!
(Mirai gasps)
No way, really?
Oh, no!
Cats and tangerines
around the table
just seemed to go
together so nicely, so-
(paper crumpling)
Two can play at that game.
I'm going all out now!
I'm gonna show him exactly
how vindictive cats can be!
Everyone!
(cats meowing)
(crowd cheering)
[Mirai] Oh, boy!
Get ready for all-out war!
Let's show all those dogs
that they're useless
without their pack
and also what happens
when cats get serious!
(crowd cheering)
I pledge my loyalty
to you, big sis!
This is a cat-tastrophe!
(suspenseful music)
Get outta the way!
Move aside! Lord
Kiba's coming through!
Down with the cat lovers!
Dogs are the best!
Aww yeah! We're gonna show
you just how great dogs are!
Come on!
Let's do this, you guys!
We'll show you the
true power of cats!
You're outta your league, dog
lovers!
Ah!
Uh, Tamaki?
I see now that dogs are
more important to you
than I am,
Kiba.
No, no, no, that's not true.
Dogs are important,
but so are you!
I guess you and I just
don't get along after all.
Tamaki, no! That's not-
Hey!
That woman rejected Mr.
Kiba's affections just now!
For Kiba's sake, we'll inflict
divine punishment on you!
Attack them!
Guys, wait!
(Kiba gasps)
Oh, I see. So that's
how it's gonna be, huh?
Everyone, engage the enemy!
[Crowd] Cats!
(cats meowing and dogs barking)
Oh, no. What do we do?
We have to talk
them out of this!
Hm.
With their tempers
flaring like this,
I doubt they'll just want
to talk things through.
But- But we gotta try!
Maybe they're just gonna
have to fight it out
until everything's destroyed.
Until it's destroyed?
[Kakashi] The God of
Destruction, cloaked in flames.
Flames!
Do you have a lighter
on you, Mr. Guy?
A lighter?
Yeah, sure. But what
do you want it for?
[Mirai] I'll return it!
Hey!
(flames lighting)
(lighter flying)
Fire Style: Flint Yagura!
(fire igniting)
Whoa!
What the?
(fire burning)
(crowd chattering)
What the hell is that monster?
Whoa, what is going on here?
[Mirai as Lord Nenu] All you
humans
engaging in this futile battle,
my name is Nenu,
the flaming God of Destruction!
(Mirai whimpering)
Nenu's just a superstition,
but maybe these people
are devout enough
that they'll believe in this!
Actually, it's more
like please believe it!
Whoa, no way, it's-
The third god that lies
dormant in this land.
[Both] That's Lord Nenu!
He fell for it that fast?
[Mirai as Lord Nenu] Precisely!
I am indeed Nenu!
And I am the god
that shall put an end
to the conflict
between dogs and cats.
As a child is born
from two parents,
this town was born
under the protection
of the Dog God and Cat God.
However, if you choose
not to end the fighting,
then my flames will cause
this village's
catastrophic destruction.
Fighting will only bring
about destruction and regret!
Is that what all
of you really want?
Good, it looks
like it's working!
Huh?
You monster!
Do you really think that
you can ruin this festival?
Forget it! I won't let you!
No way!
Please stop, Mr. Guy!
Take this and disintegrate!
Dynamic Entry!
(fire disintegrating)
(Mirai yelling)
(Guy yelling)
(Guy grunting)
(wall cracking)
(wall collapsing)
(water splashing)
(crowd chattering)
Look at that!
No way! The wall's come down!
[Man with Cat Mask 8] The
wall that separated us
is no more!
[Man With Dog Mask
11] This is indeed
the message of destruction
sent by Lord Nenu!
Yes, Lord Nenu has
created harmony
through this destruction!
A sign from god telling us
to become one and get along!
(crowd cheering)
(Guy laughing)
I don't know why but I'm
feeling great about all of this!
(Guy laughing)
Hey, listen, I'm sorry.
You know, actually,
I should probably
apologize to Mirai, too.
And I'm sorry that I forced
you to take a day off work
and then dragged you
all over the place.
Hey, why don't we
go take a soak?
Sure, but, separately, okay?
Huh?
(Kiba grunts)
You silly goose!
I'm talking about the
men's and women's baths!
(Tamaki chuckles)
Uh-
(Kiba chuckles)
(dog barking)
(Mirai sighs)
I finally got a bath!
You did really well!
Great job on your mission!
Huh? Oh! No!
It was because you gave
me a hint, that's all.
I didn't do anything.
Well, to be honest with you,
what I did basically on a whim
just happened to work out.
Oh, c'mon!
It worked out
because you have a good
head on your shoulders.
Just like your dad.
Wait, just like my dad?
Yeah!
You see, a lighter was kind
of like Asuma's trademark.
Oh.
Even if you don't
remember much of him,
Asuma continues to live
on inside each one of us.
Really? You think so?
Your dad's Fire Style
and your mom's genjutsu.
On the spur of the moment,
you merged them and
used them together.
That just goes to show
that not only Kurenai,
but Asuma as well,
are both deeply
rooted inside of you.
I was all caught up
in what was going on,
so I just took a chance, and,
some things you just never know
until you take a chance on them!
I guess Guy's hot-blooded logic
can come in handy sometimes.
(Guy snoring)
All right, I'm going to
go take another soak.
I haven't tried the salt
boiler hot springs yet.
Thank you so much!
(peaceful music)
My dad, huh?
Now I want to know about
him more than ever before!
(Ending Theme Music)
(singing in Japanese)
(upbeat music)
Miss Tenten, I can't
thank you enough
for bringing me all my things!
I'm just relieved
everything's going so smoothly
with you and the sensei.
I'm not entirely sure if
I'm fitting in with them,
but I'm managing somehow.
(Guy gasps)
[Guy] It's terrible!
(Guy screams)
[Mirai] Mr. Guy! What happened?
Next time on Boruto
Naruto Next Generations:
"The Steam Ninja Scrolls:
The Haunted Inn!"
[Guy] There was a ghost!
(Guy screams)
(Guy cries)
(singing in Japanese)